= DESCRIPTION:

This script launches a YCSB machine for testing Cassandra 0.8 and 0.7. It has been modularized for additional tests.

This has been tested in Ubuntu 10.10 and CentOS 5.5, but should support your version of Ubuntu, CentOS, and RedHat.

This script will be developed and housed at: https://github.com/riptano/chef.

= REQUIREMENTS:

Follow the instructions as listed here: http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Quick+Start.

== Configure cloud access

Proceed to configure your cloud access by adding these following lines to your ~/.chef/knife.rb file.

    # Information can be found at: https://manage.rackspacecloud.com/APIAccess.do
    knife[:rackspace_api_username] = "USER"
    knife[:rackspace_api_key]      = "KEY"

    # Information can be found at: https://aws-portal.amazon.com/gp/aws/developer/account?ie=UTF8&action=access-key
    knife[:aws_access_key_id]     = "ID"
    knife[:aws_secret_access_key] = "KEY"

Place this directory into your cookbooks folder.

Download and place the ycsb and apt cookbooks in your cookbooks folder.
The apt cookbook can be found here: http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/apt.

Then run:

    knife cookbook upload -a -o cookbooks/

You should see something similar to:

    Uploading apt                     [1.1.2]
    Uploading cassandra               [0.1.4]
    Uploading chef-client             [0.99.5]
    Uploading ycsb                    [0.1.4]
    upload complete

= ATTRIBUTES:

The main attributes to look at can be found at $CHEF_HOME/cookbooks/opscenter/attributes/default.rb and are:

    default[:setup][:home] = "/home/ubuntu"

    # Choices of CassandraClient8, CassandraClient7
    default[:setup][:test] = "CassandraClient8"

For more information, look over $CHEF_HOME/cookbooks/ycsb/metadata.rb.

After properly configuring the attributes, upload the cookbook files again by running:

    knife cookbook upload -a -o cookbooks/


= USAGE:

== Configure roles

Run this line from your default chef folder:

    knife role create <role>

where <role> is the value declared as default[:setup][:current_role]. Edit the file to look very similar to this:

    {
      "name": "ycsb08",
      "default_attributes": {
      },
      "json_class": "Chef::Role",
      "env_run_lists": {
      },
      "run_list": [
        "recipe[ycsb]"
      ],
      "description": "",
      "chef_type": "role",
      "override_attributes": {
        "setup": {
          "test": "CassandraClient8"
        }
      }
    }

or

    {
      "name": "ycsb07",
      "default_attributes": {
      },
      "json_class": "Chef::Role",
      "env_run_lists": {
      },
      "run_list": [
        "recipe[ycsb]"
      ],
      "description": "",
      "chef_type": "role",
      "override_attributes": {
        "setup": {
          "test": "CassandraClient7"
        }
      }
    }


== Starting up a cluster

An Ubuntu 10.10 cloud in Rackspace:

    knife rackspace server create -r "role[ycsb]" -i 69 -f 7 -S YCSB -N YCSB

An Ubuntu 10.10 YCSB server in EC2:

    pemname=<pemFileName>  # do not include ".pem"
    group=<securityGroupName>
    knife ec2 server create -r "role[ycsb]" -I ami-08f40561 --flavor m2.4xlarge -S $pemname -G $group -x ubuntu -N YCSB

NOTE: These AMIs only work in the US-East region. For all other regions, see http://cloud.ubuntu.com/ami/.

A Debian 6.0 (Squeeze) cloud in Rackspace:

    knife rackspace server create -r "role[ycsb]" -i 75 -f 7 -S YCSB -N YCSB

A CentOS 5.5 cloud in Rackspace:

    knife rackspace server create -r "role[ycsb]" -i 51 -f 7 -d centos5-gems -S YCSB -N YCSB

NOTE: You can run these lines more times as long as the attributes are set properly. Also, these lines should be run consecutively and never in parallel.

== Bootstrapping Commands

In order to run bootstrapping commands, you must be able to complete a passwordless SSH login. Typically, by copying your ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub key into the target machine's ~/.ssh/authorized_keys file, passwordless SSH should work. Search google for more information.

For an Ubuntu/Debian Machine:

    knife bootstrap -r recipe['ycsb'] --sudo -x root <publicDNS>

For an Ubuntu Machine on EC2:

    knife bootstrap -r recipe['ycsb'] --sudo -x ubuntu <publicDNS>

For a CentOS 5 Machine:

    knife bootstrap -r "recipe['ycsb']" --sudo -x root -d centos5-gems <publicDNS>

For a RedHat 5 Machine (Untested):

    wget http://goo.gl/0k8mV -O- > ~/.chef/bootstrap/rhel5-rbel.erb
    knife bootstrap --sudo -x root -d rhel5-rbel <publicDNS>
    knife bootstrap -r recipe['ycsb'] --sudo -x root -d rhel5-rbel <publicDNS>


== Other Useful Debugging Commands

    knife node show YCSB --format json
    knife cookbook metadata ycsb -o cookbooks

